README.md

# Filebin
### Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eH18OpXxhcw
#### Description: 
#### Filebin is a website I have been using since the start of school year to transfer reviewer I made in my computer directly to my mobile phone; I also use this website to share music or video I downloaded on my computer to my mobile phone. The idea for this project is to imitate the function of Filebin website to my newly created program that would run locally and avoid any risk of contaminating the devices I use of viruses or malwares that maybe hidden in those untrusted websites since multiple copy of Filebin is on the web. 
#### The folder project includes the file for main which what I'll be using to run the program to make things much easier, it also has the readme file on where you are currently looking at, then the last but not the least my filebin folder which includes the __init__.py  as package indicator and the filebin.py that would be imported in my main.py file. 
#### The filebin.py contains the header 'tkinter' that provides the tools I needed to create the GUI, 'PILLOW' that is used for opening, manipulating and saving many different image file formats, 'request' is used for making HTTP request which then I used to upload the file I wanted to share and can be access by copying the link or scanning the qr code with the help of 'qrcode' header, there is also the os header which is used for file and directories management, I also implemented pyperclip header which just a tool for simple function such as copy and paste clipboard function, and the last header I have used in this program which is "threading" a complicated tool use to divide the file uploaded to separate part making it much faster to send in temporary server used for sharing the file uploaded
#### Breaking down the whole process of this program should be step 1: The GUI for the program should pop up after executing it in the terminal. Step 2: Where it will allow the user to select the file they wanted to share across their devices. Step 3: This is where the file is divided by part with the help of threading header and will be uploaded to temporary website, I used which is the file.io. Part 4: Is where the user will be given the option to copy the link on where the file is uploaded or scan a qr code which then can be used to download the file on the device the user wanted to share the file onto. Step 4 is where I had the hardest time debugging because it keeps uploading the file on my local ip which means I can only download the file I wanted to share on the specific device where I run the program which is kind of pointless since the main purpose of my program is to share it across multiple devices. What I did here is I asked ClaudeAI for suggestion and it provided me a function that would then upload the file to file.io so I can access it in different devices which is a great alternative while I continue polishing this program and build my own web server on where I can upload my file without relying to third party domains like file.io.
#### Initially I really wanted to create a program that would act as the application Internet Downloader Manager or most commonly known as IDM since this application relies more on illegally obtaining a piece of media I decided to scrap the project and come up with a better tool that would be useful for students like me who will be uploading different academic files accross devices for easy access and without relying to 3rd party websites which might include malwares and viruses in the file you wanted to share and download.
#### I have a classmate at school who tutors me about basic functionality of some of the headers I used on this program one best example is the threading with his great explanation I was able to understand how that header works. So, credit should also be given to him aside for what I will mention later. All the functions I created in class FilebinGUI is self-explanatory with few comments that would help user identify its purpose. 
#### Credit for this project will go to the original Filebin website where I got the idea of sharing file across device and the AI tools I used for much easier debugging, correct syntax and proper use of imported headers.  


# TODO:
## 1. Download prequisite header to run the program (pillow, qrcode, pyperclip, tk)
## 2. Run the program by typing 'python main.py'
## 3. Select the file that you wanted to share
## 4. Either copy and paste the link to go to website where you can download the file or scan the qr code to get redirected there.
## 5. Download the file.
## 6. File should be downloaded on your local storage.
